So did you succeed?
In this lecture here, I'll show you my solution
for this problem here, or for this task here,
for these two Workflows that should be built.
And here I am in this attached project,
and you can of course also run it locally
if you wanna see it an action locally, but I'll not do that,
instead, I'll initialize this as a Git Repository,
because that's the first thing I wanna do,
I will then add all files, or I will stage all files
for my first commit, which I'll name initial commit.
And with that created,
I wanna create a remote GitHub Repository
because that of course will be needed in order
to then well, run some Workflows with GitHub Actions.
For that I am back here on GitHub,
and I'll create a brand new Repository in that account here,
and I will name it basic-exercise,
but the name is totally up to you as always.
It can be public or private, that is up to you.
And here I will again go for private,
and create this Repository, and then grab that URL here,
that URL in this box, and link it here, or set it up here
in my local Git Repository, as a remote Repository
with Git remote add.
And then here I'll add origin as an identifier,
we must not forget that.
And then here in the URL, I will add my username here,
because that will help me with authenticating
my request to that remote Repository, and hit enter.
And then if we run Git push, we get this message here.
So I'll quickly run this command here once
to set up this connection.
And now I'm prompted for my password here
because I actually entered the wrong username here.
That should be maxacademind1 in my case here,
so let me cancel this here, and quickly fix this
by using Git remote set URL for origin,
and I'll copy that URL here, put the correct URL
I wanna set includes maxacademind1,
which in my case is to correct username.
And now this command here should succeed,
and use that already stored token,
that personal access token
which I have set up on my local machine.
Okay, so now with that, the code is on GitHub,
but of course we got no GitHub Actions Workflows yet.
And that's the next thing I wanna do therefore.
For this, you learned that you must create
a new folder named .github in your project folder,
and in there add a Workflows folder,
and in there you can add your Workflow YAML files,
one YAML file per Workflow.
So here I'll add the first YAML file,
and I'll name this deployment1yaml, or yml,
both extensions are valid.
And now we have to add the definition for this Workflow.
And that all starts with a name, and the name here
is Deployment Exercise 1, or anything like this,
of course, the name is totally up to you.
We also need an event, and the event here is push
because that's the event I'm asking for here on the slide,
on this left Workflow,
we wanna trigger these linting, testing,
and deployment Steps whenever we push
to this reload Repository.
So therefore the event is push,
and will dive deeper into available events,
and how we can configure these event triggers
in the next course section, but here it's just on push.
And then we define our Jobs.
And now I mentioned that it will be up to you
whether you want to use one, or three Jobs,
and I'll show you both alternatives.
And in this deployment1.yaml file,
I'll just set up one Job.
And here this Job is my deploy Job,
that's the name we could assign, this name here is up to you
as you learned, this identifier here.
And then for this Job, we have to define a runner,
and I will use Ubuntu latest because I don't need
a Windows, or Mac OS platform, and Ubuntu latest
is relatively common, and typically a good choice.
Then we have to set up our Steps, and here we now got
a couple of things that need to be done.
It all starts for example, with us getting our code
in the GitHub Repository onto that runner machine.
And that can be done with help of a third party action
as you learned in this course section.
I'll give this a Step, a name of get code,
and then I want to use a GitHub Action here,
action distributed by GitHub itself in this case,
which is actions/checkout, and then I'll set the version
to free here, in my case to be free.
So that's one of the actions we can get in the marketplace.
In this case as mentioned, an action distributed
by GitHub itself.
We could add width to provide further configuration
if needed, but here no extra configuration is needed.
And this will ensure that our code is downloaded
onto this runner machine.
Now the next Step with the code being avoidable
on the runner machine, is to install the the dependencies.
We could also install Node.js as I did it
in this course section, in an earlier example,
and you could do this here as well,
but it's technically not required, hence I won't do it here,
but instead I wanna install my dependencies,
and we'll do that by running a simple shell command
in this project folder which was downloaded
with help of this action, and that can be done with
the run keyword as you learned.
This allows us to execute commands in the shell,
so in the terminal, or command prompt you could say
of this runner in the project folder,
and here I wanna run npm ci, which installs
all the dependencies of this project.
Alternatively, we could also use npm install, npm ci,
just make sure that we're using the exact same versions
as we did during development.
And with that done, I didn't wanna run the linting script,
the testing script, and the build script,
and output some dummy deployment message.
So here I'll give this next Step by name of lint,
and run another command in the shell,
and now it's npm run lint, because that runs
this script here, this script, this lint script here,
is executed by running npm run lint.
And that's therefore what I do here.
And thereafter, the next script in line,
or the next thing I wanna do is run, or test my code,
and run the npm run test command.
And for this special script, you could also use
just npm test that is allowed by Node.js,
and the package JSON file,
but you can also use npm run test like this.
And thereafter for building the code,
I will run npm run build.
So that's how we can run these different scripts
from package.json.
And last but not least, to simulate the deployment,
or to deploy the code, and simulate that,
I'll just output some dummy message where I say deploying.
And I'm doing this here because at this point
we have no real deployment process yet
because that would require some hosting provider
for this project, and we don't have one here
because that's also not the focus of this course
if we're being honest.
So here it's just this dummy message.
But with that, with all these Steps added,
and with all that configuration added,
we should have a Workflow that does exactly
what's requested on the left side of this slide here.
I'll also already build the version with three Jobs instead
of one Job, and for that,
I'll just copy this deployment1.yaml file,
and name my copy deployment2.yaml,
because in the end I have the same trigger,
I'll just name it deployment exercise two instead of one,
and I'll have multiple Jobs, one Job for linting,
one Job for testing, and then one Job for deploying.
And here the idea really is that for linting,
I also wanna use Ubuntu latest,
and then here I have my Steps, and we still will need
to get the code for example,
we still will need to install the dependencies,
and we still of course need to run the lint script,
but we won't do anything else thereafter.
Hence, we can copy these three Steps and paste them in here,
and make sure that you get the indentation right,
otherwise it will break.
And then we can copy this configuration, and copy it
for the test Job because there we also need to get the code,
and also need to install the dependencies.
But instead of linting, we here of course want to test
the code, and run npm run test.
So that's what we want to do here for the test Job.
Choose a different name for this Step, and run npm run test.
And with that, for the deploy Job here,
we still wanna keep the Step where we get the code,
and we want to keep the Step where we install dependencies,
but we now get rid of linting and testing
because we did that in separate Jobs.
And that's there for the alternative with three Jobs
where we have a couple of repeated Steps in all Jobs,
but then the last Step is typically different.
But that would be the alternative with three Jobs
instead of one, and now we have both alternatives here,
and with that we can create a new commit,
and then push this.
So here all give us a message of added deploy Workflows,
and push this to the remote depository.
And with that, since pushes are trigger,
those actions should be registered, and detected, and added,
and they should also be triggered right away.
And indeed, we see that both Workflows
are being executed here.
So both Workflows were detected, were added,
and are executed.
And now let's see whether they execute successfully
because that is of course what should happen here.
The first Workflow already finished,
that was the version with three Jobs.
And the other one is still running,
should finish momentarily as well though.
Yep, now it's done.
And now both Workflows finished successfully.
Now the version with three Jobs was a bit faster here,
but ultimately, both Workflows were super fast.
And it is of course worth noting that for diversion
with three Jobs, all three Jobs runs simultaneously,
so in parallel because that's the default
for GitHub Actions.
If you want to run these Jobs after each other,
you can do this by adding the needs keyword.
So here for testing, we could say needs lint,
so that this lint Job must be finished
before the test Job runs, and for deploy,
we can say needs test, so that the test Job must be finished
before the deployment starts.
And it simply depends on your exact requirements
which option you wanna choose,
which approach you wanna choose if you wanna have parallel,
or sequential Jobs.
Here, I'll show you this alternative as well,
and I'll add a message of run Jobs after each other,
and push this updated Workflow.
And with that of course, both Workflows
should be triggered again because we pushed
to this Repository, but now the version with the three Jobs,
should run these Jobs after each other
as you can already see here in this visualization.
So now it's first running the lint Job, then the test Job,
and then the deploy Job, but ultimately, of course,
it should take a bit longer, but still finish successfully.
Here we go.
The first two Jobs already finished successfully,
the third Job is running right now,
and it should finish successfully any second as well.
Let's see.
Yep, here it's done.
And that all worked as expected.
So that was the first part of this exercise here.
We built this lint, test, and deployment Workflow,
and we built it in different versions.
Now we also have that second task where you should add
a new Workflow that's actually not triggered
whenever you push to that Repository, but instead,
whenever something happens with the issues
of that Repository, when a new issue is added, for example.
And all we wanna do here is output the details
about this event in our shell, in the shell of the runner
on which the Job of the Workflow executes.
For this task, I'll add a new Workflow file,
which I'll name issues.yml name as always is up to you.
And then here, I'll give this a name of handle issues,
you can choose whichever name you want,
but the event trigger is very important.
And here it's not on push, but it's instead on issues
which is one of the officially supported events
that will trigger this Workflow whenever
anything issue related happens on the Repository.
With that added, of course, we still define our Jobs,
and here we only need one Job, which we could name info,
or output, or output info, whatever you want,
and then here we choose our runner which still
is Ubuntu latest in my case, and we set up our Steps.
And for the first Step, and in this case the only Step,
I'll just say output event details.
And we do output these details by using the echo command,
but then we use this special expression syntax
which I taught you, where you have a dollar sign,
and then two opening and closing curly braces,
and between those opening and closing curly braces,
you can run special commands,
and access special data objects that are provided
by GitHub in that Workflow.
And here I wanna output this special GitHub object
which is provided, to be precise, to turn it into text.
So from data to text that can be output,
I'll wrap it with the two JSON function,
which is a function provided by GitHub Actions,
which can be used inside of such expressions.
So this will output some information
about this GitHub context object.
And since I'm only interested in the event specific data,
I'll actually access github.event.
I showed you earlier in this course
that this GitHub context object is a quite complex object
with lots of data inside of it, and it actually also
has an event field, so a nested object
inside of this GitHub object with event specific data.
And we could output the entire GitHub object here,
but since we're only interested in the event data,
I'll dive into this nested object, and output the data
in that nested object here.
And with that, I'll create another commit, add all my files,
give this a message of added issues, Workflow,
and push that.
And of course, once we push, the other two Workflows here
will be triggered as you can tell,
but this newly added Workflow, which you can see here
on the left, is not triggered because it's not listening
to pushes, but instead two issues being created, or edited.
So to simulate this, we can simply create a new issue here,
because it does not matter who creates an issue,
if that's us, or someone else.
I'll just say new issue, and submit this new issue
because it doesn't really matter,
we just need some issue action
in order to trigger this Workflow as you can tell.
Now this Workflow is triggered, and in here you see
it outputs the event details.
All that here are the details of this event,
and we see that an issue was open for example,
we can learn more about the URLs that lead
to that issue, and so on.
Simply, have a look at all the data that
is part of that event data, and of course that event data
could then be used in more complex Workflows
to for example, automatically analyze open issues,
add labels, or do anything like this.
Here, however, we're just outputting this data
because that's everything that needs to be done
to complete this exercise.